Uh, so you started talking about smart contracts, but, uh,
let's zoom back out and ask, uh,
the big question here is what is a blockchain and what is a.
Cryptocurrency?
So a blockchain is just a ledger and really it has three nice properties.
You're timestamped,
you're imutable and auditable either in a global or a local sense. And so know,
there's all kinds of things.
Mankind has invented where it's really important that you,
when you put some information down,
it doesn't change and other people can see it. Uh, and that, you know,
when it was put down, for example, a property ledger.
So when you buy land or you have rights associated with land,
like mineral rights or water rights, or these things you'd like to,
transitively see, how does it go from Alice to Bob, to Charlie,
to Jim and so forth. And, uh,
what was the state of these things as they were transitioning?
So how much did they pay, uh, you know, when did it occur, et cetera, et cetera,
the metadata that follows that. Okay, well,
normally these types of ledgers are so important that their manage either by
governments are regulat at entities and the issues, uh,
are that while they can be efficient,
they're generally brittle to political manipulation.
And they're brittle to geopolitical events. For example,
when Syria fell apart, you know,
the very first thing ISIS did is they started saying, Hey,
the ownership of the land, it's gonna fundamentally change. We've decided that,
you know, this guy over here and now own all these things.
And then when peace comes, like, how do you unwind all of that?
Put it all back together. Uh, so the,
the power of a blockchain is that it gives you a transnational way of sorting
all these details out and putting all together in a, in, in,
in a place that you know, that even if it's inconvenient to a very powerful,
that it will still stay preserved. This is, uh,
an asymmetry we haven't had as a society, usually Kings and empires.
They have the ability to decide what's true. Uh,
and then suddenly you have this asymmetrical thing that is above them,
kind of like a synthetic laws of physics. And once something goes in there,
you know, that that's there. Okay. So that's the first part of it.
The second part of it is that it's auditable,
meaning that instead of saying only the high cleric or the president,
or, you know, some very special club of people get to see what's going on.
Suddenly now all the people can actually see who owns what, where like I'm my,
at you in a tax system where, you know, the pro probably just leaked, um, the,
the taxes of all these different billionaires and said, well,
how much do they make and how much do they pay?
Imagine a tax system where that's just done by default or any other social
systems where this type of information is put in by default. So, uh,
it's tremendously useful, uh, this type of structure and all kinds of things,
medical records, supply chains, you know,
just a good thought experiment is I travel a lot.
I've been to 52 countries in the last five years.
Imagine if I got sick in Zimbabwe, you know, like hit by a car or something,
and I'm unconscious.
And as Zimbabwe and doctor calls my doctor in Colorado and says, Hey, you know,
I, I need all Charles's medical records. Uh, you know,
he's unconscious right now. Uh, but I need it to treat him cuz he's quite ill.
Uh, they'd say, who is this person in Zimbabwe? Why? I don't know you.
I can't give you his records. I need his consent. Oh no,
he's unconscious in the hospital. Can't do it. Well,
a broker system that would allow movement of medical records,
would it be an example of what a blockchain could potentially do in the
foreseeable future?
Cryptocurrency is just an application that runs on top of blockchain, cuz it,
it turns out that when you issue property, you also can issue tokens of value.
And then you could have a monetary policy can be inflationary or deflationary
you dage where it decays over time or whatever have you. Uh,
and the very same mechanics that would ensure your property records are secure.
Your medical record access to secure could also be applied for the ownership of
the cryptocurrency. And again,
you can either be completely transparent and everybody can see what everybody
owns and that's what Bitcoin does. Or you can be as OPEC as you seek to be.
That's what Z cash basically attempts to do. It says, Hey,
let's keep these things as private as possible,
but they have relatively the same mechanics in terms of those properties of
auditability and timestamping, and imutability, you know,
things won't be reversed. You know,
that people aren't gonna manipulate the timestamps and uh,
you can audit at least enough to know that the ownership is right.